Initial set up of the postBase set (#115)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2021-01-19-introducing-baseset/index.Rmd

I had previously created a package ([BioCor](https://bioconductor.org/packages/BioCor/ "BioCor: Comparing sets of genes")) to compare these gene sets which returns a numerical value of how similar two groups of genes are.
But I found out that depending on which database I used I got very different results.
So I wanted an easy way to know in which groups a gene was present, but I also wanted this information unified from several data sources to account for this uncertainty.

I started [experimenting](https://github.com/llrs/GSEAdv/ "GSEAdv") by extending a class present on [GSEABase](https://bioconductor.org/packages/GSEABase/ "Bioconductor package") that I had used previously.
I also found out that there were some efforts by other people through the [Bioconductor](https://bioconductor.org "Project for high-throughput genomic data") slack channel.
So I got in touch with them and we shared some ideas on how to do this.

To explore different ways to solve the problem we ended up developing three different packages that aim to do similar things but take different approaches.

> At the moment BaseSet published on CRAN, [BiocSet](https://bioconductor.org/packages/BiocSet/ "BiocSet displays different biological sets in a triple tibble format") is published on Bioconductor and [unisets](https://github.com/kevinrue/unisets) that the main developer can't dedicate more time.

Reviewer: Perhaps a more gentle wording suggestion?
```suggestion
At the moment BaseSet published on CRAN and [BiocSet](https://bioconductor.org/packages/BiocSet/ "BiocSet displays different biological sets in a triple tibble format") is published on Bioconductor.  [unisets](https://github.com/kevinrue/unisets) is available on GitHub although development has stalled due to time constraints.
```

Author: Thanks, I struggled with that one!

An element can also belong to several groups.
Basketball is a team sport, but is also played with a ball.
So basketball can be in both groups, as we see on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basketball "Wikipedia: Basketball"):

> [Categories](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Category "Help:Category"): [Basketball](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Basketball "Category:Basketball") \| [Sports originating in the United States](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Sports_originating_in_the_United_States "Category:Sports originating in the United States") \| [Team sports](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Team_sports "Category:Team sports") \| [Summer Olympic sports](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Summer_Olympic_sports "Category:Summer Olympic sports") \| [Ball games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Ball_games "Category:Ball games") \| [Games and sports introduced in 1891](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Games_and_sports_introduced_in_1891 "Category:Games and sports introduced in 1891")

Some say that tomatoes should be both considered as fruits and as vegetables, so they could also be in both sets.

> We can do this for all elements we can think, pencils, mathematical operations, numbers, words, genes...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can do this for any element we can think of, pencils, mathematical operations, numbers, words, genes...
```

So far we have set up how to count and merge different sets but one of the goals of BaseSet is to also encode the uncertainty when we assign an element to a set.

To account for uncertainty mathematicians have come up with the idea of fuzzy sets.
Fuzzy sets are sets but instead of knowing for sure that an element belongs to the set, there is a value, the fuzzy value or membership, that measures the uncertainty of an element belonging to a set.

A typical example involves ratings.
Imagine classification methods that, given a picture, classify the probability of each object being in the picture.
It might return probabilities such as:

```{r fuzzy}
classification <- matrix(c(0.1, 0.2, 0.6, 0.85, 0.6, 0.5, 0.25, 0.16),
                         nrow = 2, ncol = 4, byrow = TRUE,
                         dimnames = list(c("image1", "image2"), 
                                         c("Cat", "Dog", "Duck", "Fish")))
classification # Algorithm classification
TS <- tidySet(classification) # Transform data
TS
```

We can calculate how probable it is that the image is classified to just one object.

```{r set_size}
element_size(TS)
```

> Given this memberships there is just a 0.3252 ( `0.1*(1-0.2)*(1-0.6)*(1-0.85) + (1-0.1)*0.2*(1-0.6)*(1-0.85) + (1-0.1)*(1-0.2)*0.6*(1-0.85) + (1-0.1)*(1-0.2)*(1-0.6)*0.85`) probability that the machine would classify the first image as just one thing, so it is more probable that the first image will be misclassified. 

Reviewer: Eeep! This is more complex than I expected! I can see why you didn't include the formula :grin: I think still it's important to show readers where the numbers come from, but perhaps put this calculation and the next as footnotes?

Author: Done, added the calculation as footnotes with a very brief explanation.
